---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: WOD
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-10-16
labels:
  - WOD
---
## Issues With The Course
Most of the issues I have with this class stem from the grading of the WOD’s. The all or nothing approach to it doesn’t make much sense to me. What is the benefit of asking a student to put in ten hours of work and have it evaluated after receiving almost no feedback on how it will be graded? At least for me all but one of the WOD’s that received a DNF time weren’t caused by not knowing what to code but the submission instructions. Judging from the fact that Mr. Johnson made an announcement on 9/30/21 addressing this issue I can assume I am not alone in finding the instructions less than self-evident. Even up to this week 10/14/21 I still see people making the mistake of typing done then typing done again later after finding a mistake thinking that since its still before the DNF time of the WOD that it will still count. An understandable misconception that Mr. Moore also shared until he confirmed with Mr. Ogata on how things would be graded. When you notice an error and fix it before the DNF time of the WOD and not have it count. Seeing the feedback on the WOD refer to something you already know and have fixed is incredibly patronizing and more than anything demoralizing. Knowing that the time you invested into learning and understanding the material was for nothing not because of your lack of understanding or preparation but because of how it is to be submitted using what I think is a flawed system. After class I asked Mr. Moor what the purpose of having students type “done” is in addition to having a DNF time. 

He gave me two answers

1) Typing “done” helps to give the instructor an indication on everyone’s progress and if everyone is finished to end the WOD early.
2) Some companies have similar submittal systems, so this is good experience for the future.

He further elaborated that that he had worked for a company that had a strict submittal system and left that job and prefers teaching. His advice on preventing premature submittals was to not type done until the very end and use all the time to check your code. This is good advice for they way WODs are submitted but does come into direct conflict with the first purpose of typing done. This wasn’t exactly a compelling explanation for why this system is in place. If I was your employee and that was the way you wanted to me to do things that’s fine probably not the best company but at least I’m being compensated. However, I currently have the privilege of paying for that experience. I realize that Mr. Moore’s response was off the cuff as such I would like to see if there is a more succinct explanation for this system.

## Respect Should Be Earned
I chose to write this now because I’ve been thinking about this section of the announcement Mr. Johnson posted in the discord for the past few weeks. It is in reference to committing code after typing done.

“If some of you are thinking, “I’m going to get a zero anyway, so it doesn’t matter”, you are wrong: it does matter because you are explicitly ignoring a request from Cam, Branden and I. It’s disrespectful to us.”

It seems rather disconnected that he would think of it as disrespectful for students to be frustrated after spending ten hours learning material and having nothing to show for it. Having the WODs graded as pass fail shows a perceived lack of respect for the time students put in. “You spent ten hours preparing for this but didn’t capitalize your title that’s zero points”. This is an exaggeration but it characterizes how I perceive the WOD’S. I especially don’t see what benefit there is in providing feedback to a person who has already solved the issue in a more recent commit. What is a student supposed to get out of it? 

## Expectations Are A Two Way Street
Having such a significant portion of the grade be pass fail, timed, and graded so strictly doesn’t seem like a good idea. We are all only human and make mistakes. However, perfection is expected for this. Which is fair enough code that 99.9% works still isn’t code that works. So, I think it’s only fair that the course material should be held to the same standard. I understand that because of the pandemic teaching has been difficult student engagement is down. I know a few teachers who chose to quit as a result of distance learning. I appreciate the effort that has been put into moving the course online. The homework WOD’s are fantastic, and I know how much of a pain it is to keep material up to date. I do have an issue when because of how out of date the material is it affects how things are graded. As an example the initial island snow WOD (E:35) has three different versions of the website. I went about doing the WOD as normal don’t watch the video till you have finished it once. I went to the island snow website and began recreating the top menu, finished, watched the video and realized they were incredibly different. I looked down to see the other sections and saw that the instructions didn’t match what was on the current site. As a result I would not be able to finish the homework without watching the videos first before attempting the WOD which in your words “You’ll learn significantly less from watching me solve the WOD if you haven’t attempted the WOD yourself first.” Foolishly I though well the intention is to get us acquainted with semantic ui I’ll spend the time to recreate the current webpage the instructions might not match but learning is what’s important. I got two points off since I didn’t make multiple branches to GitHub at the predefined sections following the outdated instructions that didn’t match the current webpage. Its not even a new skill we had created branches in a previous assignment. Not a big deal its two points had it been a WOD zero points.

Unclear instructions are also an issue as an example from the react tic-tac-toe tutorial (E:39). I decided to do the extra credit I implemented all the extra functions 1-6. I chose to start at 6 since I thought that would be the easiest as such it was my first commit: Task 6(6). Tested it working move on to Task6(5) and so on for all the tasks. I received half a point “(+0.5) for indicating when a game ended in a draw; note that this has a slight bug as going back through history from a state with a filled board displays the Draw message” I saw the board states function as a way to view old moves not to play though the game again. With this understanding why would the winner need to change? This is an extremely minor thing half a point not a big deal unless its pass fail in which case it is a major issue.

I read what has been said about the WODs “You are given a new WOD that assesses your ability to utilize the skills presented in the module.” However, I don’t think the way its currently being implemented is doing that. Penalizing students for unintuitive instructions is not a good assessment of what was taught in the module. I would like to know your though process on making the WODS pass or fail what benefit does it have and why do you have the current system setup.

“(1) Even if you didn’t pass the WOD, make sure that you feel comfortable with the material. If you’re not passing the WOD because you’re lost, that’s a bad sign. If you’re not passing the WOD because of a minor mistake but you do understand the material, then I’m not worried.” (Philip Johnson 10/01/2021)

If you are able to recognize that there is a distinction between students that are clearly lost and those making minor mistakes then that should be reflected in the grading. As it is a minor mistake and being lost are the same thing.
